Canadian real estate is impervious to
crashes it has been said there can be no
way prices can ever come down this is of
course all according to the mainstream
Financial media and those who have
everything rioting on the fact that real
estate will continue to Rocket upward
there's just one issue however you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you today we are going to have our
Focus entirely on the bank of Canada's
move let's look at it right away very
quickly the Bank of Canada has raised
its key interest rates as expected to a
whopping
0.5% this is the first time they've done
this in seven years so we're looking at
the same sort of policies that we've
seen with the FED in the US increase
rates very slowly incrementally and then
see how everything pans
out all central banks all throughout
history had the same sort of policies in
mind when things are doing well they
like to keep the interest rates low
because they want to keep that bubble
expanding and
expanding and then when things start to
get a little too hot they increase
interest rates but they do so too slowly
so the bubble gets bigger and bigger and
bigger and the heat is generated and
everything is sort of fomenting and when
there's a recession what do they do well
they will in fact drop the interest
rates as fast as humanly
possible and that's really a simplified
version of what has happened it's a
cycle that's
continuing and there's no doubt no doubt
that there is a breaking point I don't
know what the number is but borrowers
will be crushed if interest rates rise
to even below an average level for
interest rates historically that you can
Bank on speaking of banks the big five
banks increase their Prime rates after
the bank of Canada's interest rate hike
this is expected and I covered it
previously but what we're looking at
here is the commercial Banks which lend
to the people are in fact increasing the
rates as the Bank of Canada does so they
want as big a spread as possible in
between the cost of borrowing and the
cost um or the lending basically so what
we have here is just corporate profits
that's it they will continue to do so
the only issue I have here is that if
they increase them to a certain rate
people will not be able to afford their
homes their big ticket items and this
could very very quickly become crisis
territory this is what I found
interesting about Bank of Canada was
that they didn't keep it at
0.5 for an extended period of time in
fact they kept it it dropped then they
decided to raise it because of course oh
yes everything's okay now but they had
to bring it down again and they had to
do so simply because of the fact why
well the economy is not doing well and
they know that the only reason they're
doing so now is to save face they're
late in the game on that way
late Canada is in serious trouble the
household debt to income something that
I've talked about before look at it just
look at it you think that's
manageable how in the
world is that
manageable household debt to income
ratio you talk to people all the time
all the time who have heavy amounts of
debt and they say look my house is going
to continue to rise I don't need to
worry and that's a in their in their
minds that's a
fact Canadian household debt well above
the US Peak and you can see this here I
mean I don't know what to believe
necessarily is that the real
values all I need to know is that when
you look at the
Canadian you're seeing massive amounts
of household debt it's just
astronomical the way that this is
increased I mean you look at the housing
prices and you got to think to yourself
for a
moment what in the world are they
allowing to happen how did the bubble
ever get this big it's ridiculous that
they could allow this and this is the
government I mean they have manipulated
the interest rates to such a degree and
they don't want to do anything about it
raising it to 0.5% isn't going to do
much of anything at all maybe people
might get spooked maybe a little you
know investors might move elsewhere but
ultimately what has happened is you know
the damage has been
done Canadian households High Debt
Service ratio so again similar situation
we're looking at here
there's no way people can ever afford
the amount of debt that they've brought
on to themselves it's just not possible
it's a
fact this is talking about uh what has
happened within
Vancouver suggesting that the foreign
buyer tax a year ago has had a
significant impact on the
market we haven't seen a significant
decline in foreign investment activity
in Vancouver following the tax what led
to The Slowdown was really more domestic
buyers waiting to see what the tax will
do and I believe
that this is really just the beginning
of what we're about to
see right now that may be the
case perhaps 3 years down the road we're
going to look at this time and realize
oh no no that actually was the
beginning when you see what is happening
with interest rates and the effect it
has on debt we will realize the fact
that everything that the government is
doing right now or has done has caused a
major
catastrophe and we're watching it in
slow motion there's no way that people
in Canada will be able to afford million
dooll homes most people quite frankly
just cannot afford it they can't afford
it they've bought it the bank has given
them the money but they can't afford
it the foreign buyers I think
that the foreign buyers will probably
just look elsewhere to many of them
anyway and it's a simple matter of fact
if you are a foreign buyer do you
necessarily have to buy in Vancouver no
you can go to another Market you can go
to the Market that's not very far out at
all and still have you know the same
type of investment
but I think that it's a little bit
skewed let's just say
that without going into more detail
let's move on here I want to complete
the video 7% of Canadian workers work in
housing
construction double of the share of the
US now think about that for a second how
much unemployment would increase should
Canada's home prices beginning begin to
decline and it's very clear that it is
very beneficial to allow the housing
boom to continue in Canada of course
this is hurting people very badly and it
will be seen in the coming years there's
no doubt about that you
can't continue to expect at this rate of
debt forever it's a simple matter of
fact it's a mathematical
certainty but here we are watching it
all in slow motion if you found this
video informative please give me a
thumbs up when you give me a thumbs up
it helps to push these videos higher up
in the YouTube search rankings I
appreciate it and last but not least if
you found the video informative I know
you'll find my books the money GPS and
my new release global economic collapse
even more
informative so there's links in the
description below to check out these you
can actually flip through them Amazon
has a look inside feature it'll allow
you to do that so links are in the
description for you to check out take
care